okay folks welcome back this teaching is
going to be on the commitment of traders
report insights for effective price
action analysis
okay commitment to traders report in
graph format point to focus for this
module how to locate Co T data
loading commitment of traders graph
insights from the commercials
and how commercial hedgers can aid in
your analysis
okay folks we are on bar chart calm case
is a website I use to illustrate
commitment to change reports in graph
form and we just click on this little
toggle box up here to go to a commodity
and we're going to look at the Canadian
dollar
and right now the largest open interest
is on the March contract of 2018 so
we'll click on that
and then we'll click on technical chart
now we're going to scrub down into this
area here we're going to go to
candlestick
turn the volume off
I don't want to see this little box that
it's very distracting to me personally
but click on weekly contract we're going
to go to three years is about a good
enough timeframe to see
and then we're going to go to commitment
of traders now there's several here
there's commitment of traders just
aggregated then we have commitment of
traders financial traders report and
commitment of traders we just want this
one
okay click on that and we want to
maximize that to large
and we're going to click on draw
chart will pop up here
again
thicker volume off
and redraw that
so that way we have our chart with the
commitment a traders report slotted now
you'll notice that there is a red line
which is commercial speculators there's
a dark blue line which is small
speculators and there's a green line
it's large speculators now a large
speculators are like large funds large
private traders small specks are like
anyone else in the retail world
generally they're wrong about everything
they're doing and the commercial
speculators are many times diametrically
opposed to this group over here at the
large specs so what we want to be
looking at is this red group because
when they get a very large position no
notice there's a zero line right here ok
draw that out across the entire graph
and I'll put that on the chart so you
can see it by having that anything above
the line would be deemed bullish and
anything below it or at it would be
neutral to bearish
all this in here you see the big run-up
in their positions this is they're
buying a case of commercials are large
hedgers the people that really know
what's going on banks institutions
insurance companies large speculators
are traders okay they're they're large
fund managers or private traders so when
we see these big build ups this would be
a net long position a very large net
long position and you can see eventually
price does in fact have a large rally up
now during all this consolidation here
you can see even though the commercials
were below the zero line which will be
net short they went back above the zero
nine and you can see now they have a
little bit of a move higher and they dip
back below the zero line they started
selling off and then watch what happens
when these equal lows have been taken
out right here huge buildup of net long
positions and look at the reaction in
price on the Canadian dollar as a result
huge extrapolate a move on the upside
what's it reach for a run above this old
high back here okay so now we're in an
area where we're heavily net short buy
the commercials and you've seen their
nice big drop down in the Canadian
dollar as a result which is a bullish
move for foreign exchange or Forex the
pair is the dollar cad so if this is the
futures contract is what we're looking
at if this is bearish it's going to be
bullish for the dollar cad pair if this
currency in the futures market is
bullish it's going to be bearish in the
dollar cad pair so what i like to look
for is a significant net long position
to justify my long entry and or a heavy
net short position to justified my short
position so if we go back and look at
historical data we can see that there's
major key turning points but the
commercials or the red line indicate a
very strong willingness to be a buyer or
seller and by using this information we
can glean insight and also build
confidence behind our trades because we
know that we have smart money entities
behind us we'll show you one more
example
and we'll probably have seen enough all
right so we're going to use euro
just changing that first letter to an e
gives us the Euro on a weekly nothing
else needs to be changed down here so we
have again the Euro and consolidation
every time there's a big buildup there
was a small little rally in here big
buildup in there Commission commercial
Holdings late rallies and as price
starts to drop below these equal lows
look closely okay we have equal lows
here price dips down below that on a
weekly capacity and we are in a net long
position so commercials are accumulating
those positions long and notice what
happens we get above these equal highs
here we have this high we have this high
draw that out in time
that's the 120 big figure their net
short at that time okay so we have seen
liquidation from 120 down to 117 and now
we're consolidating again so the benefit
of having this tool is to well gauge the
maximum saturation in terms of buyers
and sellers because if you haven't
noticed already the red line
they will put the top in the bottom in
the marketplace when everything gets to
an extreme
whether it be net long or net short they
usually make the higher low the entire
move because their pockets are played
deeper than ours ever will be and they
are the market notice also that just
because they swung below the zero line
like they did here that is in no way
indicative of a directional change in
other words if they're bullish up here
and they swing down below there's your
line that does not mean that they're
gonna expect this thing to start going
lower all this means is they started
doing a transition from a heavy long
position to now that of a heavy north
net short position okay so they were
selling in this rally the problem is
when I learned this concept from Larry
Williams I felt that this was going to
be the top as soon as this happened this
would be the top and it should drop down
I did not understand institution order
flow where the orders need to be tagged
first so there has to be some measure of
liquidity ran out which we see here then
a net short position by the commercials
would be significant or noteworthy so
again this is just an introductory
lesson to get you acclimated to the
commitment rays report if you want to
learn more about this subject matter
these two books here are in my opinion
the two best individual books on the
topic you can see it's the rather
inexpensive and it's also a book by
Larry Williams how I made a million
dollars trading commodities last year
where he basically introduced it to the
trading community and it took off like a
wildfire problem is folks just simply
looked at the net short or net long
position and Larry himself even
mentioned sometimes got him in trouble
but there are
enormous benefits to understanding this
information when you have also
understanding of institutional order
flow and how to read price action when
you blend these two things together you
get really amazing results and it's not
limited just currencies it's in stock
indices and it's in bonds and it's in
commodity futures
I hope you enjoyed this presentation if
you'd like to find more can visit my
website at the inner circle trader.com